good afternoon and welcome to agri-food conversations brought to you by i
select fund the van trump report the yield lab institute family farms group my
name is david yokum i'm an associate here on the isle fund ventures team i'm
excited to welcome you to our discussion today agrifood conversations is all
about driving innovation in agriculture each month we highlight a specific
theme and this month's theme is cattle technology on today's call we're joined
by frank wooten ceo events the events livestock management platform brings
total insight of the herd from the farm to your smartphone control the movement
and grazing of animals directly in real time or set a schedule using artificial
intelligence to optimize rotational or strip grazing and maximize land yield
create virtual offenses anywhere to dictate grazing behavior or specify
protected areas and use the app to get up-to-date information about the animal
well-being from sensors worn by the livestock now each of you knows that
companies are likely to see with the right network of customers talent
investors and advisors we have invited you to this call because you're some of
the smartest most talented people in venice's market your potential customers
prevents products and services you have built the company similar events or you
have unique expertise in understanding understand the challenges and
opportunities that vents may face now before we get started we have a few
process comments um so frank you could jump to that slide too that would be
great we are not soliciting investment this presentation is to provide
information to help events find customers mentors and other strategic
relationships to help them grow their business you can use the q a box to ask a
question at any time and we will answer as many questions as time allows at the
end of the present and finally this webinar is being recorded it'll be
available for replay and both the iselect fund website
agrofoodconversations.com and also on our youtube channel so without further
delay i am pleased to introduce frank wooten ceo events frank just free to take
it

hi everyone thank you for for taking the time out of your busy schedules
to to to listen to me ramble a little bit about livestock management and you
know what we've been building events over the last couple years you know we we
started the company out and actually we found it in 2016 and over the past
couple years we've been we've been building prototypes and devices to to
control cattle and and train them to to react to sound and stimulus so that we
can virtually fence them we are commercially launching that product we
commercially started launching it in 2021 and you know are live on nearly you
know 25 farms across the u.s and australia at this point in time and expanding
pretty rapidly you know at a high level we view ourselves and i'll stick with
this page just for a second here

___

we view ourselves as a tool in the tool belt
of of of livestock farmers and you can you can see different businesses in
different industries around the world that have moved to a you know data driven
model in terms of how they manage their their businesses and one of the things
that is severely lacking in much of agriculture but particularly in the
livestock business is the ability to to get real-time specific data on animals

you know our insight is that in addition to real-time insight on animals you
also want to have real-time control of those animals so that you can actually
act based upon whatever you're seeing the overview of the industry i know that
you know we're talking to to a group of advisors who may you already have
pretty deep insight into this but uh you like to start off with you know our
belief as it relates to the industry and we we hear a lot about alternative
proteins and and things along that that sort and we certainly think there's a
place in the world for that but you based on population there is almost no way
that you will see beef decline in my opinion over the next for it you know 38

of the global landscape is actually pastures and so when we look at that you
know one of the things that that we're pretty confident and able to say is like
pastures aren't going to become more of the global landscape they may become
less of the global landscape and in order to continue to increase production
beef to meet population demands we're going to have to be able to do more with
less and one of the ways that you can do more with less on a livestock farm is

via fencing and labor you know it is a grass factory and fences and labor are
what allow you to allocate the animals in the right place at the right time to
eat the right feed to create your end product which is either meat or milk you
know when you look at kind of regenerative agriculture you know at scale one of
the real challenges when we go talk to producers and when we even look at
things like the nrcs adoption rate of rotational grazing and the challenge is
actually that our customer base is is already over subscribed with tasks that
they need to do in any particular and if they don't have time to take on more
managerial skills and and tasks they're already you know up to their necks in
terms of work and our product you in creating the ability to prescribe pastures
and custom manage how animals are controlled enables them to do that without


additional employees as well as without additional infrastructure costs
associated with it some of the biggest names across the agricultural world are
really focusing on how do we start to increase this new kind of adoption rate
of regenerative agriculture our product is you really the nuts and bolts of it
are the you know there is a base station which is on the left side of your
screen here it's a small tower that creates a radio frequency network over over
and that communicates with callers that small base station communicates up to
to the cloud and from the cloud you're able to access where your animals are
you're able to change where your fencing is you're able to move your animals
you're able to monitor their well-being from anywhere on the planet when we
think about why people are going to adopt this people don't just look to adopt
regenerative ag because they're doing it out of the goodness of their hearts
always it's it's a question from our customers of you know what is the benefit
to them it's either going to come out of increased payments on a per pound
basis to some to to an off-tank partner you know when they sell that animal or
it's got to be increased amount of increased pounds of beef produced per acre
or decreased costs on up on a per animal basis our product enables two of those



it really enables the the producer to increase the overall carrying capacity of
their land by you know more precisely allocating those animals to it and it
also allows them to decrease their infrastructure and labor costs associated
with fencing and moving and controlling animals so it creates this one-two
punch which which really drives a pretty high roi this is just a you know one
of our example customers is leo barthelmus but he's pretty pretty
representative you know he's a 63 year old man who lives in montana works 70
plus hours a week you know which we can talk about how sustainable that really
is in the agricultural world but i think that's a it's an entire other
agri-foods conversation you know when we put our devices out on his property
over the previous you know roughly 30 miles of fencing within six months he put
up the equivalent of 60 miles of fencing you know from via virtual fencing he
was able to reduce his feed costs as well as reduce you know his labor and
infrastructure costs significantly and achieve a really high roi you know
within a short period of time when you you look at somebody like leo and you
think about their farm and and how all of the different things are managed you
know they're not managed via one platform at this point in time and there are a
couple other companies that are that are working on creating the the backbone
you know of the farm we think that the interesting aspect as it relates to to
our product is that it does so with specific insight to the animals and with
specific control uh of the animals so that you can incorporate that into the
picture because the land and the animals are the single largest driver of value
on that property you know everything else is just a lever off of that when we
look at the sequencing of how we will continue our product roadmap and how we
we think about the future of the product and we're starting with this idea of
controlling the primary assets which is that land and those animals and you
know on those devices we are capturing not just the data of gps but we're
capturing other things as it relates to you know animal behavior temperature
you know movement patterns that data is going to really lead us to what we
believe is a deep intelligence layer so that we can go back to that customer
and say this is how you're controlling your animals now here's the data that we
have that we think can help you you know change some of that and improve that
to improve your profitability so that that circle of the connected farm really
you know starts in our opinion with control because otherwise you're throwing
an additional work stream at your customer without giving them a way to handle
it you know you're just throwing data at them and they've got no way to
actualize anything about that data now this is a view of what it looks like to
virtually you know herd a a group of cattle you we we held animals down in a
particular area you know for for a week then we were able to push a fence that
moves those animals from the bottom up to the top you know we have patented in
our system this idea of a one-way fence so when an animal is pushed through
this fence line it doesn't actually see or feel or hear anything but then it is
suddenly captured in this in this new area and by doing this you're able to
take a couple hundred acre pasture subdivide it and never have to even walk out
into the pasture to see that it's been actually rotationally grazed size of the
market and how we're going to the market you know our belief is is that you
know this intelligence layer that we really want to add in you know we're
starting with you know a subset of the population so we're starting with farms
that have in excess of 200 head of cattle and in australia and in the u.s we're
charging them 35 plus dollars a year per animal you know translates into still
a pretty pretty large uh market opportunity when we think about that you know
total addressable opportunity we're starting you know on the right side of this
screen and you know us and australia we think as we add in more and more data
and analytics and features we'll be able to upsell you know those devices as
well as we will continually expand into smaller farms from that you know kind
of head into you know the the kind of larger population as well as other
geographies the broader opportunity as as you might imagine is this kind of
land and expand opportunity not just you know on farm but into farm so the the
customer base is going to have this ability to look at things like animal
fertility and animal health detection as well as layer in additional sensors
into that network which we've already installed on there on their farm so the
ability to put in soil sensors and water sensors and have those drop plug and
play connect to the network you are all things that we view as coming down the
road fairly shortly and then there's this huge opportunity we believe of now
having a platform which could directly connect our customer base which is
generally one that is not too easy to connect with when you're talking about a
remote ranch you know anywhere that a ranch exists mostly and the ability to
sell directly to that person or have a have a product that is relevant to
whatever problem they're having be be offered directly to them and then the the
elephant in the room being the esg side of things the ability for us to take
the customers actions and how they're managing those animals in a sustainable
way and translate that into a new product for them to monetize in the form of
soil organic carbon tons and we're already deep in some discussions as it
relates to you with some partners to to find ways for them to monetize that
that's all i had prepared for today i kind of wanted to to keep it fairly short
and so i could open up for for questions and comments happy to to kind of
revisit slides or you know go anywhere that that people want us to go think
you're on mute there i'm seeing in the chat there's there's just a question
here about you know when will these slides be available yeah my my guess is
that david who's hosting this would be able to uh to distribute those to to
people and you know hey frank can you can you hear me now okay hey so sorry
about that i'm not sure where the connection dropped for me i didn't mean to
cut you off if you were if you're making a final point here no it's just coming
like there's uh it looked like look at somebody in the chat that asked about
will the slides be available uh and i was just saying i'd imagine that this
will be posted on youtube and that also the slides will be accessible yes
certainly they they will be and and frank thank you again this has been a
really i think excellent primer on vents and i i think at the one of the things
that's most interesting is at the surface level what what vents allows ranchers
to achieve is is fundamentally actionable and solves a key problem today but
there's so many other applications i'm hoping we can talk about that you've
touched on a little bit in the presentation i like i mentioned the beginning of
the presentation if there are any questions from the audience the best way to
ask those is to type those into the q a box and i'll answer them in the order
they are received but just to sort of kick things off if you touched a little
bit frank on further applications and sort of what the ability to move cattle
allows allows vents to do what do you see as being the next most actionable
item that you would go uh from moving cattle um into and then i just add on to
that are there any applications that customers have requested from you that
have been surprising in any way whatsoever because obviously you started off
with a vision on how to move cattle but you probably learned so much from
talking to them like what about this like what can you do that yeah i mean i'm
constantly amazed about the things that we get asked you know so i could that
could lead down a little bit of a rabbit hole here yeah i mean i guess when i
when i think about like you know immediate next applications right our device
has an accelerometer on it has an ambient temperature it has a couple other
sensors in it you we view the immediate next steps are looking at things like
fertility health and and being able to offer that to in pasture customers so
the ability to start to look into the analytics of you know lame animals in
field you know that that's kind of what we view what we have in our immediate
roadmap on in terms of the existing device algorithms we get a ton of requests
for water monitoring know pretty much everybody that we talked to would love to
    have us hook in a water monitor into the system so we we view that as
    something that's likely you're pretty pretty high up on the on the roadmap
    just because it's it's not a an extraordinarily difficult add-in and at the
    same time you know it's it's a time suck for people to to go out check
    water make sure that there's water in the trough and or that it's flowing
    so those are those are two quick ones there's there's a list of a good 50
    other ones i think that the longer the longer bigger one for our customer
    base is like our customer base has been restricted to selling one product
    right which is meat generally we're talking about pastoral farmers and the
    ability to offer them an additional product to monetize in in carbon is
    really interesting for them and we could sit here and debate how far off
    that is it's going to be due to the formalization of the markets due to
    what happens in the government bunch of bunch of other things we can
    already see it from our counterparts in australia that it's coming and and
    that you know there's got to be demand for it and so i think it's a really
    interesting time for for our customer base when they when they start to
    think about that because they're going oh well like what would my how would
    i manage things if i had a completely different revenue stream as well
    right and so we think there's a lot of questions around that that need to
    be answered but it's pretty interesting because it's something that wasn't
    even on the table five years ago yeah definitely thanks frank kind of
    somewhat similar question but maybe just going into the landscape of of
    wearable solutions for livestock that have emerged over the last they call
    it five five or six years obviously beyond the tags that were survived that
    are have already been previously available through all flexes of the world
    can you talk a little bit about the distinction between a wearable device
    for for cattle that allows them to be moved versus one that's perhaps just
        an ear tag that measures biometrics and just sort of what the not only
        the differences in what is required but also what one enables versus
        what what the other may not yeah you know i can get pretty deep on that
        but i'll try and stay at 10 000 feet you know if you think about a a
        kind of a wearable that is sitting on a device that is not actuating
        which is what i would consider you know an ear tag that measures
        fertility for example that's a reporting device it basically is
        constantly just sending data in one direction to be able to take that
        device and suddenly tell it it needs to have instructions and have it
        dynamically be able to communicate back and forth that those
        instructions have been received that those instructions can be changed
        takes the problem and explodes it you on the communication side you not
        it doesn't go from one to two it goes from one to thirty right it's
        it's a completely different dynamic when you are having a
        bi-directional communication system versus when you're having one that
        is kind of unidirectional you when our when we started to look at this
        problem one of the things that for me really became apparent pretty
        clear is that we were building a communications platform and that
        animal management and control was an application which sat on that and
        and so when you're building a communications platform what you need is
        a team of communications engineers so that's what that's what we've
        built our team fundamentally on is starting from this perspective of
        like how do we a look at what our customers could pay you in a
        theoretical scenario and then build to that communication system that
        is purpose driven for for this particular application and so you know
        we we absolutely think you know there's certainly a big market for for
        a lot of the wearables in the world you know clearly you know in the
        dairy sector that's that's been a huge success you know for the scr's
        and and for for a number of other folks i think that when you get into
        a pastoral scenario where you talk about open range cattle management
        you're not talking about an animal that if if it's not cycling that you
        can do something on that day because that animal could be two hours
        away from where you are and it may be extraordinarily hard to go and
        and find a way to have an intervention with that animal and so what you
        need is something that have enables you to actuate how do you take
        control of that animal or that herd and make a decision on it based on
        the data that's occurring there not just suddenly have one new data
        stream that says oh there's another problem on your farm and there's
        nothing you can really do about it and so we we started with that
        control layer versus i think some people have started in the opposite
        direction which we think is going to be extraordinarily hard to to do
        certainly i'm going to pause here and see if there's any final
        questions or any questions from the audience now is a great time if
        you've got them there's one one thing that stands out to me is just how
        large the market is here i know you covered a slide on it a little bit
        but i think it is helpful to perhaps just like reiterate for anybody
        listening just like the immensity of how many animals there are how
        even a small portion of that market is a huge opportunity even within
        just a couple of customers i mean some of these customers have so many
        head of cattle that you know they can support a large business in and
        of themselves and just any information any any color you can provide
        there and just provide some perspective on how big this opportunity is
        yeah i mean i think the easiest version of that right is is that there
        more cattle on the planet than there are cars on the road right so like
        you know everybody views cars as this kind of ubiquitous thing and and
        when people talk about things for the auto industry they immediately
        are like oh my god like it's just this behemoth of an industry well
        like there are more cattle on the planet than there are cars in the
        road then you added another 900 million sheep you added another 400
        million goats you added like you've got you know more than 50 of the
        population the equivalent population of humans would be livestock that
        is on pasture and so when when you think about that and you say okay if
        you hit a small sector of that market yeah it's like if you hit 10
        percent of that market it's like the equivalent of you sold a
        consumable good to every person in the united states right right and
        you know there there are obviously complexities this is this is this is
        not a this is not a consumer product so we're selling it to an
        industrial environment which makes it challenging but you know that
        also for us we view as a barrier to entry as well as as a competitive
        advantage over time as we continue to succeed there that it's a that it
        is a challenging environment and then it's one that you know we think
        that once we crack the nut it's going to be it's going to be pretty
        pretty interesting for for everybody along for the ride yeah absolutely
        well frank we always like to ask our guests on agri-food conversations
        um what have the audience help you today and how can they find you yeah
        so my email is pretty easy frank events that i owe you know i'm
        unfortunately always on it and so feel free to feel free to reach out
        you know www.events.io is our is our website address i think the the
        things we're we're looking for you know we're just at this
        commercialization stage so anybody who's interested in the you know
        that's running 200 plus head of cattle in the u.s or australia we're
        certainly excited to talk to you about what we're building and and and
        hopefully partner with you you're at a higher level you know i
        discussed and i topically mention some of the stuff that's going on you
        know on the policy side as it relates to carbon as it relates to some
        of these you know some of these other sustainability initiatives you
        know to the extent people are involved in those markets or involved in
        those discussions you know we're we've had our head down for you know
        four years building a product and we're poking it up now and we would
        love help you know to to to point us in the right direction necessarily
        of who we should be talking to we've got some good folks that had
        iselect who are helping us in that but if anybody else is is out there
        and and wants to drop a line i'm more than willing to to have a
        conversation perfect well frank thank you again so much for your time
        uh genuinely really excited about the work that fence is doing there's
        so much opportunity in space uh from a lot of different angles so again
        if you if you think you have a way that maybe you can contribute to the
            event story and some of the good work they're doing please please
            do reach out to frank or if you prefer to reach out to me i'm happy
                to make an intro whatever you're most comfortable with for
                anybody who's new to this this webinar series we host agri-food
                conversations every thursday at 3 p.m central time if you want
                to share this with a friend we welcome you to replay this
                webinar will be available in the next 24 hours and new viewers
                can register for agri-food conversations by going to
                agrofoodconversations.com and then finally if you'd like to
                learn more join us next week when we host eio diagnostics a
                company that has developed new testing systems for the
                detection of mastitis earlier than previously possible frank
                thank you again so much for your time and everyone have a great
                rest of your thursday
